doc: Add instruction for gsg_quick_setup.sh script. (#3020)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/getting-started/apl-nuc.rst

   instruction below to reference the appropriate version number of Clear
   Linux OS (we use version 28960 as an example).

#. Download the compressed Clear Linux OS installer image from
   https://download.clearlinux.org/releases/28960/clear/clear-28960-installer.img.xz
   and follow the `Clear Linux OS installation guide
   <https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/get-started/bare-metal-install>`__
   as a starting point for installing Clear Linux OS onto your platform. Follow the recommended
   options for choosing an **Advanced options** installation type, and using the platform's
   storage as the target device for installation (overwriting the existing data
   and creating three partitions on the platform's storage drive).

   High-level steps should be:

   #.  Launch the Clear Linux OS installer boot menu
   #.  With Clear Linux OS highlighted, select Enter.
   #.  From the Main Menu, select "Configure Media" and set "Auto Partition" to your desired hard disk.
   #.  ``shift + A`` to the "Advanced options".
   #.  Select "Additional Bundle Selection" to add additional bundles "desktop-autostart", "editors", "network-basic", "user-basic"

>    #.  Select "User Manager" to add an administrative user "clear"

Reviewer: The current Clear Linux installer requires you to set the password for the user now (not when you first log in).  So change to:
```
#.  Select "User Manager" to add an administrative user "clear", and assign a password.
```

   #.  Select "Assign Hostname" to set the hostname as "clr-sos-guest"

> #. After installation is complete, boot into Clear Linux OS, login as

Reviewer: Change this now to say:
```
#. After installation is complete, boot into Clear Linux OS, login as **clear**
   using the password you previously assigned.
```

   Please refer to the ACRN :ref:`release_notes` for the Clear Linux OS
   version number tested with a specific ACRN release.  Adjust the
   instruction below to reference the appropriate version number of Clear
   Linux OS (we use version 28960 as an example).

#. Download the compressed Clear Linux OS installer image from
   https://download.clearlinux.org/releases/28960/clear/clear-28960-installer.img.xz
   and follow the `Clear Linux OS installation guide
   <https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/get-started/bare-metal-install>`__
   as a starting point for installing Clear Linux OS onto your platform. Follow the recommended
   options for choosing an **Advanced options** installation type, and using the platform's
   storage as the target device for installation (overwriting the existing data
   and creating three partitions on the platform's storage drive).

   High-level steps should be:

   #.  Launch the Clear Linux OS installer boot menu
   #.  With Clear Linux OS highlighted, select Enter.
   #.  From the Main Menu, select "Configure Media" and set "Auto Partition" to your desired hard disk.
   #.  ``shift + A`` to the "Advanced options".

>    #.  Select "Additional Bundle Selection" to add additional bundles "editors", "user-basic", "desktop-autostart", "network-basic"

Reviewer: Let's put these additional bundles in the order they appear in the menu (alphabetical):  desktop-autostart, editors, network-basic, user-basic

#. After installation is complete, boot into Clear Linux OS, login as
   **clear**, and set a password.

> #. If you want to set up ACRN hypervisor, Service OS or Guest OS automatically, we recommend you follow

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder could you suggest some text to make it clearer that we have two methods described in this doc. One that is more manual (and more complex) and this new one based on the script?

I'm also starting to think that renaming the script may be a good idea, something like acrn_quick_setup.sh, what do you think?

Reviewer: Maybe:
```
#. The remaining instructions below provide detailed instructions on setting
   up the ACRN Hypervisor, Service OS, and Guest OS.  We also provide an
   automated script that does all these steps for you, so you can skip these
   manual steps.  See the `quick-setup-guide`_ section below to use the
   automated setup script.
```

Actually, my preference would be to put the automated script instructions
immediately below, and then show the "hard way" after that.

Reviewer: Also, we need to rewrite the Clear Linux steps listed above this step.  The whole user interface for installing Clear Linux has changed and the options aren't named the same or are in different orders.

Author: ``gsg_quick_setup.sh`` script now is changed to ``acrn_quick_setup.sh``
And move the script instructions immediately below to the 'Set up a Clear Linux Operating System', the installing steps is also changed based on 28960.

      |                    | which is enterprise-style kernel with backports   |
      +--------------------+---------------------------------------------------+

> .. _quick-setup-guide:

Reviewer: Placing this section here doesn't make sense.  Do I need to run the steps immediately before this (I don't' think so), and the steps immediately after this scripted setup aren't separated enough.   I was wanting the steps to first describe the automated/scripted path, and THEN you could follow them with a clear line and a heading for the manual installation method.  As it's written now, the automated/scripted steps are in between some of the manual steps and it looks confusing.

Author: Re-placing "quick-setup-guide" and add a head line for the rest step of clear linux os installation.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo sh acrn_quick_setup.sh -u 28960
      Password:
      Upgrading UOS...
      Downloading UOS image: https://download.clearlinux.org/releases/28960/clear/clear-28960-kvm.img.xz
        % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                       Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
       14  248M   14 35.4M    0     0   851k      0  0:04:57  0:00:42  0:04:15  293k

   After download is completed, you'll get this output.

   .. code-block:: console

      Unxz UOS image: clear-28960-kvm.img.xz
      Get UOS image: clear-28960-kvm.img
      Upgrade UOS done...
      Now you can run this command to start UOS...
      $ sudo /root/launch_uos_28960.sh

   .. note::
      If you have a local UOS image which is named ``clear-28960-kvm.img.xz`` or it's just uncompressed into
      ``/root`` folder which is named ``clear-28960-kvm.img``, then you can run
      ``sudo sh acrn_quick_setup.sh -u 28960 -k`` to skip downloading it again and set up UOS directly.

#. Now you can run ``sudo /root/launch_uos_28960.sh`` to launch UOS.

   .. code-block:: console

>       $ sudo /root/launch_uos_28960.sh

Reviewer: I'm getting a failure when I run the launch_uos script:
```
clear@clr-sos-guest ~ $ sudo /root/launch_uos_29100.sh
cpu1 online=1
cpu2 online=1
cpu3 online=1
passed gvt-g optargs low_gm 64, high_gm 448, fence 8
SW_LOAD: get kernel path /usr/lib/kernel/default-iot-lts2018
SW_LOAD: get bootargs root=/dev/vda3 rw rootwait maxcpus=1 nohpet console=tty0 console=hvc0   console=ttyS0 no_timer_check ignore_loglevel log_buf_len=16M   consoleblank=0 tsc=reliable i915.avail_planes_per_pipe=0x070F00   i915.enable_hangcheck=0 i915.nuclear_pageflip=1 i915.enable_guc_loading=0   i915.enable_guc_submission=0 i915.enable_guc=0
VHM api version 1.0
open hugetlbfs file /run/hugepage/acrn/huge_lv1/D279543825D611E8864ECB7A18B34643
open hugetlbfs file /run/hugepage/acrn/huge_lv2/D279543825D611E8864ECB7A18B34643
level 0 free/need pages:0/0 page size:0x200000
level 1 free/need pages:0/2 page size:0x40000000
to reserve more free pages:
to reserve pages (+orig 0): echo 2 > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-1048576kB/nr_hugepages
now enough free pages are reserved!

try to setup hugepage with:
    level 0 - lowmem 0x0, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
    level 1 - lowmem 0x80000000, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
total_size 0x180000000

mmap ptr 0x0x7f48e10e3000 -> baseaddr 0x0x7f4900000000
mmap 0x80000000@0x7f4900000000
touch 2 pages with pagesz 0x40000000

really setup hugepage with:
    level 0 - lowmem 0x0, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
    level 1 - lowmem 0x80000000, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
polling 33...
Listening 33...
acrn-dm: Could not open backing file: clear-29100-kvm.img: No such file or directory
                                                                                    Could not open backing file: No such file or directory
       mngr_client_new: Failed to accept from fd 33, err: Invalid argument
                                                                          Stop listening 33...
                                                                                              Stop polling 33...
                                                                                                                Unable to init vdev (2)
clear@clr-sos-guest ~ $ 

```

Author: I'll check this on my board, and could you please provide these outputs:
``cat /root/launch_uos_29100.sh | grep clear-29100-kvm.img``
``ls -l /root/clear-29100-kvm.img``

Author: UOS launch fail is due to ``$uos_img`` isn't getting the full directory. It's fixed in latest release of script.

Reviewer: My NUC is in the office so I'll need to get you that information tomorrow (I'll fetch a new script and try in the morning too).

      to reserve more free pages:
      to reserve pages (+orig 1): echo 2 > /sys/kernel/mm/hugepages/hugepages-1048576kB/nr_hugepages
      now enough free pages are reserved!

      try to setup hugepage with:
          level 0 - lowmem 0x0, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
          level 1 - lowmem 0x80000000, biosmem 0x0, highmem 0x0
      total_size 0x180000000

      mmap ptr 0x0x7efef33bb000 -> baseaddr 0x0x7eff00000000
      mmap 0x40000000@0x7eff00000000
      touch 1 pages with pagesz 0x40000000
      mmap 0x40000000@0x7eff40000000
      touch 512 pages with pagesz 0x200000
      ...
      [  OK  ] Started Login Service.
      [  OK  ] Started Network Name Resolution.
      [  OK  ] Reached target Network.
               Starting Permit User Sessions...
      [  OK  ] Reached target Host and Network Name Lookups.
      [  OK  ] Started Permit User Sessions.
      [  OK  ] Started Serial Getty on ttyS0.
      [  OK  ] Started Getty on tty1.
      [  OK  ] Started Serial Getty on hvc0.
      [  OK  ] Reached target Login Prompts.
      [  OK  ] Reached target Multi-User System.
      [  OK  ] Reached target Graphical Interface.

      clr-0d449d5327d64aee8a6b8a3484dcd880 login:

> #. After login, these commands may show you whether it's in UOS or not.

Reviewer: How about:
```
#. After you login, these commands and results would show you're running
   in the UOS::

      # uname -r
      4.19.34-45.iot-lts2018
      # ls /dev/acrn*
      ls: cannot access '/dev/acrn*': No such file or directory

   In the UOS there won't be any /dev/acrn* devices.  If you're in the SOS, 
   you'd see results such as these::

      # uname -r
      4.19.34-45.iot-lts2018-sos
      # ls /dev/acrn*
      /dev/acrn_hvlog_cur_0   /dev/acrn_hvlog_cur_2  /dev/acrn_trace_0  /dev/acrn_trace_2  /dev/acrn_vhm
      /dev/acrn_hvlog_cur_1   /dev/acrn_hvlog_cur_3  /dev/acrn_trace_1  /dev/acrn_trace_3
```

      :align: center
      :name: gsg-successful-boot

.. _quick-setup-guide:

Use the script to set up ACRN automatically
===========================================

It is little complicate to setup the SOS or UOS, so we provide a script to do it quickly and automatically.
You can find the script `here
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor/master/doc/getting-started/gsg_quick_setup.sh>`__
and please note that should be run with root privilege since it will modify various system parameters.

#. Installing Clear Linux and login system

#. Open a terminal

> 

Reviewer: may need to set proxy settings first:
```
export http_proxy=http://myproxy.mycompany.com:port
```

#. Run ``cd ~ && wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor/master/doc/getting-started/gsg_quick_setup.sh``

> #. Run ``sudo sh gsg_quick_setup.sh -s 28920`` to setup SOS

Reviewer: I get a "You're trying to install an older version of Clear Linux" message with this command line. It looks like if I'm running a current version of Clear Linux and I want to get ACRN installed, this script won't do that.  Will the script only install and setup ACRN if I upgrade the Clear Linux version too?

Author: Yes, so far it's not support downgrade SOS, but we still able to run this script to set up ACRN for current version of Clear Linux.

>    .. figure:: images/quick-setup-start.png

Reviewer 2: Could you replace this picture by real text (and use `code-block:: console` to make it look like output on a terminal? (that makes it easier to update it later to newer versions, etc.)

      :align: center

   You'll see this output if all the process is complete.

   .. note::

>       This script is using /dev/sda1 as default EFI System Partition (ESP). The ESP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      This script is using ``/dev/sda1`` as default EFI System Partition (ESP). The ESP
```

>       may be different based on your hardware and then you should specify it directly with '-e' option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      may be different based on your hardware and then you should specify it directly with ``-e`` option.
```

      Here is an example for setup SOS on NVMe SSD: ``sudo sh gsg_quick_setup.sh -s 28920 -e /dev/nvme0n1p1``

   .. note::
      If you don't need reboot automatically after set up SOS, then you should run this command:
      ``sudo sh gsg_quick_setup.sh -s 28920 -d``

#. If you want to continue to set up a Guest OS after boot SOS, then you can run
   ``sudo sh gsg_quick_setup.sh -u 28920`` to get your UOS ready.

   Downloading UOS image.

>    .. figure:: images/upgrading-uos.png

Reviewer 2: could we replace this with text (and `code-block:: console`)?

      :align: center

   Set up UOS successfully.

>    .. figure:: images/setup-uos-success.png

Reviewer 2: Could we replace this with text (and `code-block:: console`)?

      :align: center

   .. note::
      If you have a local UOS image which is named clear-28920-kvm.img.xz or clear-28920-kvm.img

>       in home (root) directory, then you can run ``sudo sh gsg_quick_setup.sh -u 28920 -k``

Reviewer 2: Let's make it clearer that the Clear Linux UOS image **must** be somewhere in the `/root/` folder.

If we could, it would be preferable to search for that image also in the local folder (where this script is run from). But that could be an improvement for later.

>       to skip downloading it again and set up UOS directly.

Reviewer: So, after running the script, the system reboots and I'm presented with the GUI to login as the clear user.  So I did that.  Now what?  Is there something I can do that shows I'm now running CL as a guest on top of ACRN?

Author: For the SOS, we may use ``dmesg`` to detect ``ACRN`` to make sure CL is running as a Service SOS. And for UOS, we may use ``uname -r`` and ``ls /dev/acrn*`` to show that is running as Guest OS or not. Please help to review the latest changes :smile:
